Gamers have always looked for ways to be more immersed in their games. 
Vibration inducing bodysuits omnidirectional treadmills headphones with pinpoint location, 
accurate, sounds these gadgets promise to take us deeper into the worlds we love, 
but there has never been something quite like the vortex 4d environmental simulator Wow. 
I mean look at this. 
It'S actually blowing air at him like in the game. 
So how is it Riley. 
Are you immersed. 
My eyes are kind of dry: okay, yeah. 
Let'S talk about that! Antlion audios new mod mic wireless features, low latency, 
high recording quality, LED status indicators up to 12 hours of battery life and more 
check it out at the link in the video description. 
Yeah does feel more like. 
I am outside right right and I watch this part watch this part that slows down slows down in slow motion. 
Then it gets going again. 
Oh, oh wipeout, sort of there is definitely a legitimate difference in in feeling yeah. 
This should be blasting past your heads, oh yeah, hugely like it's just kind of a gentle breeze, 
I mean a gentle breeze is better than nothing. 
That'S true, very true. 
In much the same way that you know force feedback through her controller was considered revolutionary for gaming, 
even though, obviously, you know a slap shot feels different from array. 
No, the doodad is not contributing in any meaningful way whatsoever. 
Maybe part of it is that I'm standing further than you were yeah, it's not mine, 
but also you said you felt it it's not super or hot, and this is this is consistent with what so, 
in response to my own question, does the vortex increase immersion. 
Well, it does something does something: the first time you watch a video or play a game. 
There'S you're, you're gon na have all whoa cool moment or, like maybe uh whoa warm breeze moment, and it's at its best. 
When there's a sudden change in scenery, that's accompanied by a blast of air and there are more than one 
moments when it actually works pretty well, but the issues that we found that, while actually gaming like not 
just watching the vortex demo, reel 2018 whirlwinds detection engine. 
Just isn't smart enough to tell the difference between stepping out of a cave into the icy air and 
flipping on a light switch, so it mostly translates into bursts of air being sent at your head every time.  
