Gamers have always looked for ways to be more immersed in their games. 
Vibration, inducing bodysuits omnidirectional treadmills headphones with pinpoint location, 
accurate, sounds these gadgets promise to take us deeper into the worlds we love, 
but there has never been something quite like the vortex 4d environmental simulator Wow. 
I mean look at this., It'S actually blowing air at him like in the game... 
So how is it Riley? Are you immersed? My eyes are kind of dry, okay, yeah... Let'S talk about that! 
Antlion audios new mod mic wireless features, low latency, high, recording quality, 
LED status indicators up to 12 hours of battery life and more check it out at the link in the video 
description... So this curious device comes to us courtesy of a company called whirlwind FX 
and it's called the vortex. It'S supposedto increase game or video immersion by blowing air at your face, 
which may not be quite as stupid as it sounds so to differentiate their product from 
Just a USB powered desk fan the air stream actually changes in intensity and even in temperature, 
depending on The audio and video playing on your PC, with the basic idea being that, 
if you see like a snowy scene, you'll feel blustery gusts of wind.. 
This should be blasting past your heads, oh yeah, hugely like it's just kind of a gentle breeze, 
I mean a gentle breeze is better than nothing... That'S true, very true... 
In much the same way that you know force feedback through her controller was considered revolutionary 
for gaming, even though, obviously you know a slap shot feels different from array... 
You know it's like it's blowing... Only at one side of my face, though, hmm yeah yeah part of the 
problem: okay, okay, so clearly the solution is two of them... My eyes are drying out. 
Though... I'Ve only been here for like three minutes yeah... How does Batman fight Superman? 
That'S stupid? Okay, Batman has and he's dead, now he's human yeah... 
Again, it's not really picking up on the correct intensity because yeah, 
it kind of relies on the movement of the screen itself and it's just kind of going yeah 
you're outside there's, probably a breeze... I do hear can't try an actual game: 
yeah, okay, so I'm getting air blown at me. Whoa... Somewarm air blown at me that lots of warmness 
yep I'm running along there's some air blowing up... Okay, I'm standing next to fire, 
starting in the fire., Don'T kill yourself getting a little hotter... Do you feel like you're? 
Actually, fighting demons, he'll infested Mars, the smell is kind of distracting... 
I mean it kind of smells like burning... Just isn't smart enough to tell the difference 
between stepping out of a cave into the icy air and flipping on a light switch, so it 
mostly translates into burstsof air being sent at your head every time... You move your view 
from side to side which maybe makes a little bit of sense. There'S like a little bit of wind. 
On my face, my hair... The issue is that for every time the wind syncs up with what's happening 
on screen, there are three to seventeen instances where it doesn't like an event will occur where 
you would expect to have a corresponding blast of warm or cold air, and it's not there and 
Then other times you'll feel air on your face when you shouldn't like when you're driving a car 
flying an aircraft also, I should hope that you don't feel air on your face when you're in a 
Starfighter, because then something is definitely wrong because you're in space yeah... 
So yeah for the most part, it just feels like gaming with, like an oscillating fan, 
that's blowing at you from one side which can actually cause a bit of cognitive dissonance 
when the explosion is happening over on the other side... Since the vortex is supposed to make 
gaming more immersive, I guess one thing we haven't addressed yet is motion sickness, 
so the feeling of motion sickness is apparently caused by a mismatch between what a player 
is experiencing in game and in real life... So Ansel one of our editors here gets motion sickness 
from using VR normally, so we had him playing a racing game with the vortex and his verdict... 
It might be a little better and then for comparison's sake... 
We hadn't played the game again with a regular fan.