Gamers have always looked for ways to be more immersed in their games. Vibration, inducing bodysuits omnidirectional treadmills headphones with pinpoint location, accurate, sounds these gadgets promise to take us deeper into the worlds we love, but there has never been something quite like the vortex 4d environmental simulator Wow. I mean look at this., It'S actually blowing air at him like in the game.. So how is it Riley? Are you immersed? My eyes are kind of dry, okay, yeah.. Let'S talk about that! Antlion audios new mod mic wireless features, low latency, high, recording quality, LED status indicators up to 12 hours of battery life and more check it out at the link in the video description.. So this curious device comes to us courtesy of a company called whirlwind FX and it's called the vortex. It'S supposed to increase game or video immersion by blowing air at your face, which may not be quite as stupid as it sounds so to differentiate their product from Just a USB powered desk fan the air stream actually changes in intensity and even in temperature, depending on The audio and video playing on your PC, with the basic idea being that, if you see like a snowy scene, you'll feel blustery gusts of wind. And if there's a fiery explosion, you'll feel a hot blast, so uh Riley how'd that work well.. So there's an intake fan at the back air is deflected with a plate to either pass through a heating element inside or to avoid it before exiting. Through this beautiful front nozzle., Now the vortex has a desktop app that uses what whirlwind Effects calls the e^x algorithm to monitor and analyze the audio waveform, which informs the intensity of the wind blast.. The video meanwhile informs how hot or cold the air will be.. The orange and red in fire and explosions translate to heat while bluish colors translate to cold.. I mean that's really cool, but you didn't actually tell you.. Does it work? I mean sort of you.. You should probably try for yourself to be honest.. Ok, yeah get in here.. Alright, I'm ready to get immersed., Oh yeah get in Myrtle ok.. So this is what kind of smells like., Electronics, your referee yeah.. I thought that would go away really.. It smells like one of those cheap heaters., You know.. So this is not a great first impression, all right, I'm gon na I'm opening up my mind. Okay, I'm closing these earphones and opening up my mind.. So this is their demo video.. This is the demo video and it works like as soon as you make something fullscreen, then the e ex algorithm will start like okay.. Now it's analyzed okay., So this is best-case scenario.. This is best-case scenario.. According to the makers of the vortex, I've got to give credit where credit is due.. Yeah does feel more like.. I am outside right right and I watch this part watch this part that slows down slows down in slow motion.. Then it gets going again.. Oh, oh wipeout, sort of there is definitely a legitimate difference in in feeling yeah.. This should be blasting past your heads, oh yeah, hugely like it's just kind of a gentle breeze, I mean a gentle breeze is better than nothing.. That'S true, very true.. In much the same way that you know force feedback through her controller was considered revolutionary for gaming, even though, obviously you know a slap shot feels different from array.. You know it's like it's blowing.. Only at one side of my face, though, hmm yeah yeah part of the problem: okay, okay, so clearly the solution is two of them.. My eyes are drying out. Though.. I'Ve only been here for like three minutes yeah.. How does Batman fight Superman? That'S stupid? Okay, Batman has and he's dead, now he's human yeah.. Again, it's not really picking up on the correct intensity because yeah, it kind of relies on the movement of the screen itself and it's just kind of going yeah you're outside there's, probably a breeze.. I do hear can't try an actual game: yeah, okay, so I'm getting air blown at me. Whoa.. Some warm air blown at me that lots of warmness yep I'm running along there's some air blowing up.. Okay, I'm standing next to fire starting in the fire. Don'T kill yourself getting a little hotter.. Do you feel like you're? Actually, fighting demons, he'll infested Mars, the smell is kind of distracting.. I mean it kind of smells like burning.. I don't feel like there's a strong connection between the airbursts right, the action on the screen and that can almost make it feel like you, you're reminded that you're not in the game world you're sitting at a desk with pretending to be the doom guy you're.. Not actually the doom guy, you know you know my mouth, I am the doom guy.. Okay, hey! That'S fine man! You live your life.. So is this the part where you make fun of my rocket League skills? No, there was some wind Wow, see that's kind of interesting when, when, when the explosion, when you get your goal, it's like it blew a thing at me., So watch this watch it a little bit. Yeah love the vortex, embrace the vortex.. Now it's time to really enter the matrix states, immerse yourself that matrix reference is so so now and edgy.. Well, what are you ready player ready player one I'm just gon na I've actually never played the skinny before um yeah, throw it yeah um grab that bat back. You got to go slower. Man go slower.. Why would I go slower because time moves as fast as you do? It'S like a just [ Music ], but there you go.. I can't believe I've never played this game.. No, the doodad is not contributing in any meaningful way. Whatsoever., Maybe part of it, is that I'm standing further than you were yeah, it's not mine, but also you said you felt it it's not super or hot, and this is this is consistent with what so, in response to my own question, does the vortex increase immersion? Well, it does something does something: the first time you watch a video or play a game., There'S you're, you're gon na have all whoa cool moment or, like maybe uh whoa warm breeze moment and it's at its best.. When there's a sudden change in scenery, that's accompanied by a blast of air and there are more than one moments when it actually works pretty well, but the issues that we found that, while actually gaming like not just watching the vortex demo, reel 2018 whirlwinds detection engine.. Just isn't smart enough to tell the difference between stepping out of a cave into the icy air and flipping on a light switch, so it mostly translates into bursts of air being sent at your head every time.. You move your view from side to side which maybe makes a little bit of sense. There'S like a little bit of wind. On my face, my hair.. The issue is that for every time the wind syncs up with what's happening on screen, there are three to seventeen instances where it doesn't like an event will occur where you would expect to have a corresponding blast of warm or cold air, and it's not there and Then other times you'll feel air on your face when you shouldn't like when you're driving a car flying an aircraft also, I should hope that you don't feel air on your face when you're in a Starfighter, because then something is definitely wrong because you're in space yeah.. So yeah for the most part, it just feels like gaming with, like an oscillating fan, that's blowing at you from one side which can actually cause a bit of cognitive dissonance when the explosion is happening over on the other side.. Since the vortex is supposed to make gaming more immersive, I guess one thing we haven't addressed yet is motion sickness, so the feeling of motion sickness is apparently caused by a mismatch between what a player is experiencing in game and in real life.. So Ansel one of our editors here gets motion sickness from using VR normally, so we had him playing a racing game with the vortex and his verdict.. It might be a little better and then for comparison's sake.. We hadn't played the game again with a regular fan. Blowing at him, and he said that that was just as good bummer looks like they probably could have saved themselves some R & D now for the sake of science, since the vortex apparently uses colors to inform The wind temperature to a certain degree, we wondered whether We could game the system by displaying full screen solid colors. So what we did, what is just bring up a full screen.. You know light blue, solid color, but switching between light, blue and orange didn't consistently change. The temperature instead, like before., We simply got a burst of air whenever the screen changed, so air temperature does change between hot and cold when an actual scene is displayed.. So there does seem to be some aspect of the algorithm that informs that change other than just color.. So maybe that's whirlwind. Fx'S actual end game to use the vortex as a development tool to continue to refine their sensing technology, something that does have potential like I've done this bird simulator thing in VR, where the changing fan blowing in front of you really affects the Way that you perceive Your rate of movement through the air, but it should be noted that that's with a custom-built experience like there's a whole rig that you strap yourself into with a game.. That'S specifically built for it and it's unlikely that we're gon na see that kind of integration with mainstream games anytime soon.. So should you get this for me, I'm gon na say no, not unless you've got a hundred and twenty bucks burning a hole in your pocket and you just desperately need some kind of air ejection device to put it out Riley.. Do you have any closing thoughts? No sorry can't talk I'm too immersed right now, I'm very immersed check out private Internet access.. Vpn PIAA hides your true IP address and allows you to bypass geo restrictions and censorship. By making you appear as though you are connecting from somewhere else, and you can use it on 5 devices at once. It also helps prevent attacks by blocking unwanted connections.. It Auto blocks all traffic if the VPN disconnects and keeps your data out of the hands of advertisers and other activity tracking snoops with apps for Windows, Mac, Android, iOS, Linux and chrome.. There'S always a PIAA client for you and they have over 3,000 servers in 28 countries with no user logs.. So what are you guys waiting for check them out today at the link in the video description? So thanks for watching guys, if you just liked this video, you can hit that button.. But if you liked it hit like get subscribed and maybe consider checking out where to buy the stuff, we featured at the link in the video description, not that we're like recommending it in this case also down.. There is a link to our merch store, which has cool shirts like this one and our community forum, which you should totally join.. There'S a bug in Riley's computer.. I got ta fix this bug, ASAP, hey 